Welcome in this lecture we are going to be preparing you why to display a cervalis.
So here I've got my you.
If I hit the join button then we get this list with an empty entity list essentially.
And for now I'm going to hook it up so that when we hit join it is going to add a new element to this
less than as you can see it's a scrollable list you've got scroll bar at the right here.
And it's going to be storing our list of servers.
It isn't yet but it will be will be populating it in the next lecture.
But in this lecture will be figuring out how to achieve this.
Let's dive in.
So we're going to the point where we're able to find sessions but it's not very pretty at the moment
to have to go and do it in the output log.
We've got you for a reason.
We want to be able to hit the join button and have a list of available servers current here rather than
us having to type in the IP address.
So let's begin with that.
So we're going to actually be using a component called a scroll box.
Let's see why.
Let's go into the content browser and open up our main menu and Main Menu widget has opened up on the
other.
Ah the window for me.
And here we go this is our main menu as we know we have a little bit revision we've got a menu switcher
and a join menu and join menu is what we want to change.
We want to change out basically this IP address field.
I want to remove that and replace it with.
You can see here we've got a size box or a couple of size boxes around around that area.
And actually I want to add in another size box which is going to contain a scroll box so let's add in
the scroll box first.
So I'm going to grab a scroll box from the palette.
I'm going to stick it between the two sized boxes.
Obviously it takes up no space whatsoever which isn't the best thing in the world.
So let's right click on it wrap with wrap with a scale box.
There we go we've got ourselves a scale box around the scroll box and this scale box.
Now I want to.
Don't want to stretch or scale to fit.
Is it scale so I.
No it's not scalable I want undo that.
I want size box ramp with size box easy to get these names confused.
Let's click on the size box.
I want to override its height so I'm going to go to the child lay out click override height override
and I'm going to increase that until we've got some visible size.
There we go.
And this is going to be for the list of servers is going to go in here inside the scroll box obviously
a scroll box is going to have all of its children.
And then it's going to scroll so let's add in some children just for a test so I'm going to look for
some text elements.
And I'm going to stick some in the scroll bar.
And another one and another one and let's just keep adding them until we've got.
Lots and lots of text they go and you can see that you end up with something that is scrollable.
So if we go ahead and play this to test it out you know and join they go you got a scrolling list which
is going to be these scrolling list of servers of which we can then go ahead and click click on and
hit join.
That's what we're aiming for anyway.
Okay.
So if that is what we're aiming for let's go ahead and do it.
Let's go ahead and create this.
Set up so I'm going to delete the text boxes for now at least an app seems to accidentally deleted.
Also our scroll box so I'm going to undo that.
Let's see if we can undo that.
No.
I'm going to have to do it.
Maybe I can undo it.
I'm just not seeing it because I had the main menu selected instead to get all my text boxes delete
those and select the Confirm meant the join menu again.
So a bit annoying isn't it.
Let's.
Make sure we have got the main menu selected.
Okay.
So what we want to do is be able to add in elements into this.
And what we can do is create a widget of our own a new widget which is going to be a server line essentially
in here and we can style however we like and we can create some C++ to set the server name and so on
and so forth.
And we're going to add these in programmatically in B C plus plus.
Now it's actually very easy to add things in programmatically to a scroll box because a scroll box is
an instance of a you panel widget you can see it here among the children of you panel widget.
We've got scroll box and the U panel which it has these functions about children it can and have children
in it can also clear all children so it can get rid of all children.
Add them back in and so on so forth.
So that's what we're interested in we're going to be adding in children and constructing the custom
widget to display these server line.
So with your new knowledge of the scroll box I think you're perfectly capable of doing the next bit
yourself which is to populate the list to populate that scroll box list.
Were you going to create a new C++ widget to be the row in that list and create a BP child to do the
styling had a bit of text make it look like a row from a server line and then create this widget from
Maine.
C p p an add a few test ones in as children.
So just do this basically has it as a test for the now with some static data in it just to make sure
that we can test the process of adding children to the scroll box.
You can add as many as you like to get it to agilely scroll and were going to be testing basically doing
this in C++ and the next lecture will actually populate it with the data from find.
But we won't worry about that just yet.
Okay so pause a video and have a go at this challenge.
Okay welcome back.
So were going to start off by populating this list let's start off by creating a widget.
In fact I'm going to go in to my menu system and go to it.
Actually not necessarily in the main many cities because I'm going to go to add new C++ class.
I'm going to show all classes.
I'm going to look for user widget as we've done a few times already.
Go to next.
I'm going to call this server row.
And I'm going to make sure it's in the right folder with the other menu system stuff.
Don't go in the right folder out.
Go ahead and create that class is going to compile it now or just wait for the compilation to finish
and when the compilation has finished we are going to create the blueprint.
Child of this class.
Okay.
The cervero has successfully compiled.
Let's go up to our content browser route and from the content browser route we're going to go to the
menu system and we're going to add in a new widget blueprint he is so and new then we're going to look
for which one is it user interface widget blueprint is going to prefix with WB P. And it's going to
be server row glass server row going to open up the server row.
I'm going to go to the graph class settings change the parent class to our server row parent class and
save and compile that moscona Save the main menu hasn't been saved at the moment or compiled.
It's giving us actually an error about the IP address field which is fine because we haven't removed
that from the C++ yet.
We'll do that in just a second.
So we've got ourselves a server row now.
And with this novarro I just want to let's make sure it's much smaller here.
Like so and we are going to add in is not a canvas panel.
We don't want it to be a canvas panel at this stage.
Instead let's put in a see a horizontal box.
Horizontal box should do the trick.
I'm going to stick that.
I don't want it under the canvas panel it's right click on the canvas panel.
Replace with horizontal box.
There you go.
That's what we want.
We've got our horas on the box and another horizontal box only two of them.
And in this horizontal box I'm just going to put for now a text component so let's find the go to the
panel go to that text and add that under the horizontal box.
And this is looking very small but as we know it is just probably trying to look like the whole page.
In fact we might be able to change.
Desired on screen change the field size of this screen because it's just a small widget.
We don't want it to be the full screen size.
So in the top right we go to Phil's size.
We can try.
Desired.
There we go.
That's going to now put it at the size that we have basically put in the amount of space taken up by
the widget.
So it's going to say text block at the moment.
I'm going to say change text block to serve a name.
Like so.
And I will change the text in text block to my.
Server.
Like so.
So fairly straightforward you could have done this with the text block but obviously this is going to
give us a lot more flexibility over the row formatting than we would have had otherwise.
So we've got that got the server row.
We now have a problem with that IP address in the C++ So let's go over in to your visual studio find
our main menu.
Dot H and find the line it was complaining about which is the IP address field.
A You add a spool text box I want to change that over to actually be that scroll box that we've replaced
it with which we know to be a child of you panel widget and the API that we're wanting to use is actually
the you panel widget API.
So Im going to be using a U panel widget pointer and it is going to be called not the IP address field
but rather the server list.
Let's check that we can rename the scroll box to the server list.
Just to bind things across and we'll call the IP address the server list.
MIKE So let it let it build.
It's going to fail I assume because something in the C plus plus is going to have wanted that server
list to be around so we can also check that.
MYERS it IP address field.
Yes it's got that in Join server.
So for now what we can do is we can comment this out and we can make sure that we're going to make this
work in the future.
With an new server list at the moment it doesn't make sense.
So let's go ahead and select this and commented out because we know it's going to fail.
Caricatural see your control See control care.
Not entirely sure.
I can always remember this one.
You never forget the short cuts then are you can obviously go and find it in the menu instead.
In this case it's under the edit menu I believe.
And then if we go to advanced there is commenting on comments section so that should be control K control
see or is matched to get these things control cake drop See they go we've commented it out that's go
ahead and build.
See if there's any other instances of IP address it looks like those are the only ones for now.
So we should be okay with the build.
Yes indeedy it did work.
Let's go over to our blueprint and make sure it compiles Yes it does it's able to find the cervalis
which I'm happy about that means it's time for us to construct this widget.
Now if you have forgotten how to construct said widget then the clue is in our main menu not in our
main menu Sorry but in and game instance p p where we should be constructing a widget.
Let's see if we can find that.
So here it is in load menu widget and in load many widget we can see that there we are using this create
widget.
Function with the.
You may menace the type and then we are adding this this menu class that menu class is declared at the
top by our find F Class finder so we can go ahead and create an F Class finder going to do this in Maine
many see p which is where we want to be creating this.
So I'm going to go ahead and do it just before all our binding in fact we don't have a constructor here
at all.
So let's create first the constructor which is going to return nothing doesn't even have a void with
a constructer main menu.
On calon you main menu and it is going to I don't think it has to take any arguments let's leave the
arguments out of the picture for now.
It is complaining that we have.
Now the reason this doesn't work is because we need our f object to initialize it like we've got over
in the game instance C++.
So let's get that initializer taken over over here and this still ain't going to work because we want
to actually declare this.
Constructer somewhere in our main menu.
So actually let's have a look at what it is in the superclass.
I assume it's going to be public.
So actually I just put it in public.
So go to the head and we are going to look for public section much of which we don't actually have one
at the moment is all private.
So we're going to create a public section at the top.
Call it so call it public.
And then we are going to paste in our constructor.
We're going to remove the name space.
Like so.
And that should do us just fine.
Okay so we're going to in this constructer.
Copy over our class finder jargons set up stuff and stick it in.
Stick it in to our C++.
Go and we're going to rename the class that we're looking for because of this we're not looking for
the main menu here we are looking for.
We serve.
What do you call it sever row and it is going to be a you use a widget.
Menu BP class.
Nope.
That's going to be the server row BP class.
And we can take that and copy and paste it elsewhere.
In two other uses which is is this of it.
And we've got our construct to help us namespace which isn't included So let's get that from the s.p.
as well.
Got the constructor.
Help us go back to the key and stick it in there and just put it between the main menu include and these
other components that we are including Okay so that should be okay now and menu class is what we're
trying to save it as.
Nope.
We want to go to a head a file of game instance so the puzzle platform game instance each find that
menu class copy it go back over to the head of the main menu.
And in here we are going to have a private property that is the T subclass of and is not going to be
the main menu class but B server row class.
And it's still a sub class of the you use a widget so we can take that we can set it in our constructor
and all that is.
Well now we can go ahead and construct a widget of that type I'm actually going to do it in Join server
because we've got a button currently not doing anything.
And that's where I would like to be able to hit the button and have it create a new widget.
So let's go to the C plus plus of the game instance again and find its widget creation code I think
it's the host server or something.
No I think it must be in load menu there it is we've got this create widget We're checking it's and
narmer doing a set up we don't need to do a set up in our case.
So let's go over to the C++ of the main menu again.
Paste in that create widget stuff and it is going to be let's see it we're going to be creating the
widget of the server row class type and the actual type that we're going for is not going to be a new
main menu at the moment we don't actually need it to be the server row.
But let's think about let's think ahead a little bit it's going to be a you server row and that server
doesn't exist yet because we haven't included it so let's include it.
I'm going to add the Include at the bottom of all the platform or the engine includes that we've got
it's going to be including the server.
H That should help us out a little bit there.
And we're going to save it in to a variable doesn't need to be a menu in this case it can just be a
temporary you serve a row variable which is just in this join server.
So it's going to serve a row.
It's going to sort of call it Roe but remembering to use upper case upper camel case for visual studio
for unreal.
I mean and then create which is complaining about is there anything we need to do to include that.
No it's actually talking about a different error if I hover over it is saying argument types are not
really matching basically it want to create widget if we look at the definition of create widget to
either take a new world a game instance or a play a controller so we can get hold of the world from
this object so let's do that.
We don't do it this arrow and let's see if we've got a get world.
Yes we do have a get world.
We do want to make sure that this is not null of course.
So we're going to do a new world world equals this world and we're going to do it.
Sure.
In here just to make sure that the world is not not a pointer and will return if it is.
And then we can use this world in our create which be then ensuring that the Roe is not null rather
than the menu and then then we can do that what wed been hoping to do which is to add it to the serve
list.
So weve got our server list object and we can do an add child.
And with that child we can add in the new widget which is going to be a row.
Like so the row that we just created and lets see if that builds and if it doesnt build Why not.
Just a couple of simple errors.
The point is around world world should be a pointer not just you world.
Same goes for the cervero you are probably noticing these errors as I was typing them let's go ahead
and build it and test it.
So that's a successful bill.
Let's go over in that to unreel and hit play.
Go to join menu and hit join.
And every time I hit join you can see it is adding one of our server elements to the list congratulations.
Pat yourself on the back.
Hopefully quite long but hopefully it was all mostly revision So you managed to bear with me and I'll
see you in the next lecture are we actually going to populating this with useful stuff.